# Leetcode  71. Simplify Path

## 分類 : Stack Medium

## 題目：
You are given an absolute path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash '/'. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its simplified canonical path.

The rules of a Unix-style file system are as follows:

A single period '.' represents the current directory.
A double period '..' represents the previous/parent directory.
Multiple consecutive slashes such as '//' and '///' are treated as a single slash '/'.
Any sequence of periods that does not match the rules above should be treated as a valid directory or file name. For example, '...' and '....' are valid directory or file names.
The simplified canonical path should follow these rules:

The path must start with a single slash '/'.
Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash '/'.
The path must not end with a slash '/', unless it is the root directory.
The path must not have any single or double periods ('.' and '..') used to denote current or parent directories.
Return the simplified canonical path.

Example 1:

Input: path = "/home/"

Output: "/home"

Explanation:

The trailing slash should be removed.

Example 2:

Input: path = "/home//foo/"

Output: "/home/foo"

Explanation:

Multiple consecutive slashes are replaced by a single one.

Example 3:

Input: path = "/home/user/Documents/../Pictures"

Output: "/home/user/Pictures"

Explanation:

A double period ".." refers to the directory up a level (the parent directory).

Example 4:

Input: path = "/../"

Output: "/"

Explanation:

Going one level up from the root directory is not possible.

Example 5:

Input: path = "/.../a/../b/c/../d/./"

Output: "/.../b/d"

Explanation:

"..." is a valid name for a directory in this problem.

## 演算法：
- `directories = path.split("/")`
  - 善用split

## 程式碼：
```python
class Solution(object):
    def simplifyPath(self, path):
        path+='/'#確保有尾巴
        st=[]
        temp=''
        for c in path:
            if (c =='/' and temp):#checpoint /和/間有內容
                if temp=='..' and st: ##..且非第一項，pop
                    st.pop()
                elif not (temp=='..' or temp=='.'):#非.和..則加入st
                    st.append(temp)
                temp=''#清空暫存
            elif c !='/':#暫存++
                temp += c
        ans=''
        #做成字串
        if st:
            for i in st:
                ans=ans+'/'+i
        else:
            return '/'
        return ans
```
## Time Complexity & Space complexity:
- Time Complexity   :   Big-O(__n__)
- Space Complexity   :  Big-O(__n__)

## 補充：
### Time Complexity :
- path走一遍，O(n)
### Space complexity :
- 最糟st存n、temp存n、ans存n ->3n ->O(n)

## Link@
### Contact Me : 
- [github@yehdanny](https://github.com/yehdanny)
- [Website@yehdanny](https://yehdanny.github.io/mypage/html/index.html)
- [Instagram@yeh_const](https://www.instagram.com/yeh_const?igsh=MTVlNTl2eGVkeWI2MA%3D%3D&utm_source=qr)
### Learn More About Markdown :
- [This Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
