# Leetcode  2901. Longest Unequal Adjacent Groups Subsequence II

## 分類 : DP Medium

## 題目：
You are given a string array words, and an array groups, both arrays having length n.

The hamming distance between two strings of equal length is the number of positions at which the corresponding characters are different.

You need to select the longest subsequence from an array of indices [0, 1, ..., n - 1], such that for the subsequence denoted as [i0, i1, ..., ik-1] having length k, the following holds:

For adjacent indices in the subsequence, their corresponding groups are unequal, i.e., groups[ij] != groups[ij+1], for each j where 0 < j + 1 < k.
words[ij] and words[ij+1] are equal in length, and the hamming distance between them is 1, where 0 < j + 1 < k, for all indices in the subsequence.
Return a string array containing the words corresponding to the indices (in order) in the selected subsequence. If there are multiple answers, return any of them.

Note: strings in words may be unequal in length.

Example 1:

Input: words = ["bab","dab","cab"], groups = [1,2,2]

Output: ["bab","cab"]

Explanation: A subsequence that can be selected is [0,2].

groups[0] != groups[2]
words[0].length == words[2].length, and the hamming distance between them is 1.
So, a valid answer is [words[0],words[2]] = ["bab","cab"].

Another subsequence that can be selected is [0,1].

groups[0] != groups[1]
words[0].length == words[1].length, and the hamming distance between them is 1.
So, another valid answer is [words[0],words[1]] = ["bab","dab"].

It can be shown that the length of the longest subsequence of indices that satisfies the conditions is 2.

Example 2:

Input: words = ["a","b","c","d"], groups = [1,2,3,4]

Output: ["a","b","c","d"]

Explanation: We can select the subsequence [0,1,2,3].

It satisfies both conditions.

Hence, the answer is [words[0],words[1],words[2],words[3]] = ["a","b","c","d"].

It has the longest length among all subsequences of indices that satisfy the conditions.

Hence, it is the only answer.

Constraints:

1 <= n == words.length == groups.length <= 1000
1 <= words[i].length <= 10
1 <= groups[i] <= n
words consists of distinct strings.
words[i] consists of lowercase English letters.

## 演算法：
- Greedy 

## 程式碼：
```python
class Solution:
    def hamming_dist(self, w1, w2):
        return sum(a != b for a, b in zip(w1, w2)) == 1

    def getWordsInLongestSubsequence(self, words: List[str], groups: List[int]) -> List[str]:
        from functools import lru_cache
        @lru_cache(None)
        def helper(t, prev_word, prev):#丟先前
            if t == len(words):
                return []
            ans = []
            #用
            if groups[t] != prev and len(prev_word)==len(words[t]) :
                if self.hamming_dist(prev_word, words[t]):#hamming distance==1
                    #taken
                    ans = [words[t]] + helper(t+1, words[t], groups[t])
            #不用
            skip = helper(t+1, prev_word, prev)#t+1其他不動
            return ans if len(ans)>len(skip) else skip

        res = []
        for t in range(len(words)):  #每個index都當初始，跑一遍
            cur = [words[t]] + helper(t+1, words[t], groups[t])
            if len(cur) > len(res): #使用最長的答案
                res = cur
        return res
            
            

```
## Time Complexity & Space complexity:
- Time Complexity   :   Big-O(__n²L__)
- Space Complexity   :  Big-O(__nL__)

## 補充：
### Time Complexity :
- O(n^2 * L) n 是 words 的長度，L 是單字長度。
### Space complexity :
- 遞迴堆疊最多 O(n)
- lru_cache 儲存最多 O(n²) 組回傳值，每組回傳一個 list（總長度最多為 n，含每個字長 L），最壞 O(n * L)

## Link@
### Contact Me : 
- [github@yehdanny](https://github.com/yehdanny)
- [Website@yehdanny](https://yehdanny.github.io/mypage/html/index.html)
- [Instagram@yeh_const](https://www.instagram.com/yeh_const?igsh=MTVlNTl2eGVkeWI2MA%3D%3D&utm_source=qr)
### Learn More About Markdown :
- [This Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
