# Leetcode  3335. Total Characters in String After Transformations I

## 分類 : DP Medium

## 題目：
You are given a string s and an integer t, representing the number of transformations to perform. In one transformation, every character in s is replaced according to the following rules:

If the character is 'z', replace it with the string "ab".
Otherwise, replace it with the next character in the alphabet. For example, 'a' is replaced with 'b', 'b' is replaced with 'c', and so on.
Return the length of the resulting string after exactly t transformations.

Since the answer may be very large, return it modulo 109 + 7.

Example 1:

Input: s = "abcyy", t = 2

Output: 7

Explanation:

First Transformation (t = 1):
'a' becomes 'b'
'b' becomes 'c'
'c' becomes 'd'
'y' becomes 'z'
'y' becomes 'z'
String after the first transformation: "bcdzz"
Second Transformation (t = 2):
'b' becomes 'c'
'c' becomes 'd'
'd' becomes 'e'
'z' becomes "ab"
'z' becomes "ab"
String after the second transformation: "cdeabab"
Final Length of the string: The string is "cdeabab", which has 7 characters.
Example 2:

Input: s = "azbk", t = 1

Output: 5

Explanation:

First Transformation (t = 1):
'a' becomes 'b'
'z' becomes "ab"
'b' becomes 'c'
'k' becomes 'l'
String after the first transformation: "babcl"
Final Length of the string: The string is "babcl", which has 5 characters.
 
Constraints:

1 <= s.length <= 105
s consists only of lowercase English letters.
1 <= t <= 105

## 演算法：
- DP

## 程式碼：
```python
class Solution(object):
    def lengthAfterTransformations(self, s, t):
        mod = 10**9 +7
        nums = [0]*26
        for ss in s:
            nums[ord(ss)-97] += 1 #ASCII code-97 a=0~z=25
        
        for _ in range(t):
            cur = [0]*26        #下一個
            z = nums[25]
            if z :              #z轉ab
                cur[0] += (z % mod) #a
                cur[1] += (z % mod) #b
            for n in range(25):
                cur[n+1] = (cur[n+1]+nums[n])% mod 
                #下一個 = z轉變 + 上一個的數量
            nums = cur  #
        return sum(nums)% mod
```
## Time Complexity & Space complexity:
- Time Complexity   :   Big-O(__t__)
- Space Complexity   :  Big-O(__1__)

## 補充：
### Time Complexity :
- 每一輪迴圈內部對長度 26 的陣列操作是 O(26) ≈ O(1)
- 共有 t 輪轉換
- → 所以整體時間複雜度是 O(t)
### Space complexity :
- cur = [0]*26 O(1)

## Link@
### Contact Me : 
- [github@yehdanny](https://github.com/yehdanny)
- [Website@yehdanny](https://yehdanny.github.io/mypage/html/index.html)
- [Instagram@yeh_const](https://www.instagram.com/yeh_const?igsh=MTVlNTl2eGVkeWI2MA%3D%3D&utm_source=qr)
### Learn More About Markdown :
- [This Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
